[# My simple note-taking setup | Zettelkasten in Obsidian | Step-by-step guide](https://youtu.be/E6ySG7xYgjY?feature=shared)

Obsidian is just a tool. Obsessing over the most best setup in obsidian or setting up extremely complex setups is counter-productive.


[# A Simple Way to Learn Complex Skills](https://youtu.be/OI_3bQ-EWSI?feature=shared)

Break down larger skills/tasks/problems into smaller skills/tasks/problems. Focus on only one such skills/tasks/problems at a time.


[Stop Taking Notes!](https://youtu.be/s-IKwjCWb3Y?feature=shared)
Focus on conversation/meeting, not transcribing entire conversation/meeting. Transcribing is not productive.



[# How To Use Obsidian: The ONE THING That Took Me TOO LONG To Figure Out](https://youtu.be/sTSgD4784gM?feature=shared)

Daily notes as a log. Create dedicated notes for events if necessary.

A nice template is ::
- [ ] Completed
- [ ] Started
- [ ] To-do

Use calendar along with daily notes.


[# How to achieve more while studying less - Obsidian & Conceptual Notes](https://youtu.be/MYJsGksojms?feature=shared)

Information is the only thing we care about. We simply don't care about notes.

We need fastest access to the most relevant information.

Fastest access is from brain. So brain is the ideal place for any information.


Objective 1 :: Remember

What we remember::
 - What links to other topics most,
 - What we use the most often


Objective 2 :: Enable quick access to information when needed

Appropriately store information.

Judge every concept/idea that you see with USE criteria ::
- Unimportant
- Self-explanatory
- Easy enough to memorize immediately

Add the ones that don't fit this criteria to your notes.

Create notes conceptually, not sequentially. I.e, similar ideas/concepts appear together. Keep ideas/concepts as atomic and independent as possible. Eliminate as much redundant stuff as possible.

Solve examples yourself. Note down the ones that you solved incorrectly.


Why this works ::
- This saves time. You are actively thinking about how new stuff works with the existing stuff. This improves retention of existing stuff as it repeated more often and new stuff as it already links to existing stuff.
- Questions on the material will come up sooner than later.
- Existing stuff provides a framework for learning new stuff. This makes learning easier.
- This enables first principles thinking. First principles thinking relies on strong knowledge of fundamentals.



Objective 3 :: Enables you to link concepts across various disciplines



What you don't have to memorize :: facts, values of variables concepts, etc.

Ultimately, this is not a project in itself. It is a means to an end, not an end itself. Its goal is to enable you to do as much as possible as quickly as possible.





[The FUN and EFFICIENT note-taking system I use in my PhD](https://youtu.be/L9SLlxaEEXY?feature=shared)

Storing huge amounts of information that can be accessed very quickly. PhD needs information storage and retrieval at a very large scale.

A few core principles for note-taking ::
 - Write as much as possible. Writing is the only way to preserve thoughts/knowledge.
 - Try to keep everything as irreducible as possible. Eliminate redundant stuff while still preserving the essence of the thought/knowledge.
 - All knowledge is interconnected. Treat it as such.


Phase 1 ::

Note down thoughts/knowledge/ideas as they occur.

Note down whatever you feel is important or might want to revisit. Also note down the source.


Phase 2 ::

Create permanent notes.

This is where you write down ideas/knowledge in your own words. If possible, make them as irreducible as possible.