### [# GoLang or Rust -- Do they have a place in Data Science?](https://www.reddit.com/r/datascience/comments/rp2o74/golang_or_rust_do_they_have_a_place_in_data/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=web3x&utm_name=web3xcss&utm_term=1&utm_content=share_button)

GO can be used as MLops platform. You can build massively parallel batch scheduler.

Rust is useful for building high performance libraries. For example, your organization may need to build internal-sourced, large & complex financial calculators to be used across hundreds of separate projects to avoid duplicating work while also reducing documentation for regulatory requirements.



### [# Golang for data science](https://www.reddit.com/r/golang/comments/ahlosy/golang_for_data_science/)

I wouldn’t focus on learning ML in Go. The ML space for go is not very mature like it is for Python and C++ (tensorflow specifically).

GO SDK for apache beam is relevant here.

<a href="https://github.com/sjwhitworth/golearn">Machine learning library for Go</a>


>I don't suppose this will be very popular opinion, but it has to be stated:
>To begin with, let me point out, that there is a difference between data science and machine learning. However, both of these have one staple requirement, main requirement, to be applied effectively. And that's mathematics. Probability and statistics are dead on requirement. And shallow understanding of it won't be enough. You actually will have to dig deep with all the glory of high level abstractions in maths. Yes you can apply some of the methods used in those disciplines in your every day job as a programmer, but to specialize in it is entire different thing.
>To ask, what programming and language to use for it to become a data scientist is to aspire to become a chemist and ask what language should I use to do molecule modeling. That's entire the wrong end to start.
>Now it's sad that this is not pointed out in rational manner. And a lot of programmers who work with web development, which is to say, they work with I/O devices which manage application state, have no clue about it either, other than knowing it "pays well", in same light the project manager don't know what you do as programmer other than "writes code". Fact that there is plethora of courses which tries to advertise / hype themselves to you aren't very helpful either.
>Once you get the math part correct, whatever programming tool to use to help you to do the calculus according to mathematical algorithms you come up with be a non-issue, however, most likely it won't be go and be one of more academia adopted languages like Python, MatLab or Julia.
>[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9cISuEW2T_M](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9cISuEW2T_M) a take on "hypes" generally. It's particulary dangerous to newbies. Frederick puts it very well into words in level-headed manner.


Data Science and ML is implementation of mathematics. Programming language/frameworks are just a tool to implement these in real-life.




>While all above is true, still - the toolkit matters.
>Python has a lot of amazing libraries that would allow just to compose the functions to get the results. Same does Scala.
>In Golang OP would probably start from scratch. And we are not talking about frameworks/platforms like Apache Spark or Hadoop, that allow a developer to focus on the modelling while hiding the mundane tasks of data sharing, partitioning, shuffling across the nodes and handle failures.
>Golang is cool, but it is not ever close to anything that is suitable for modern ML industry, not talking DS day to day job duties.






>I use both Golang and Python extensively and have experience in machine learning and data science as well as "traditional" software development. I really wouldn't recommend Golang as a language for data science due to the following shortcomings:
>- **Lack of good library support**: Python has many amazing libraries for data science and excellent support for numerical computation via numpy (and all other libraries that build upon it like scipy, scikit-learn). It also provides great tooling for data visualization and data cleaning / transformation.
>- **Lack of interactivity**: Golang is not meant to be used interactively (e.g. it doesn't provide a REPL), whereas Python is very-well suited for interactive computation as an interpreted language. Also, with Jupyterhub it provides a very well-designed environment for interactive and exploratory data science.
>- **Community**: There is hardly anyone who uses Golang for exploratory data science, so you will find much less documentation and help on many topics as compared to Python.
>- **Development speed**: From my experience it takes me personally 3-4 times longer to write a given program in Golang compared to Python, mostly due to the more rigorous nature of Golang. The finished program will usually be more stable and much faster than my Python code of course (due to the static type checking and heavily optimized, compiled code). Execution speed is important for code that runs in production and executes things millions or billions of times. For exploratory data science performance is less of an issue though normally, as your code will be run only a couple of times. Here speed of development (IMHO) is more important than execution time, and Python and its ecosystem is really hard to beat in that respect.
>- It can make sense to use Golang for running ML models in production, Tensorflow for example provides Go bindings that let you load and execute models. I wouldn't do the model development in Golang though. If you're interested in that you can check out the documentation at [https://www.tensorflow.org/install/lang_go](https://www.tensorflow.org/install/lang_go), but note that the Tensorflow Golang API is not covered by Google's stability guarantees so it might change.
>- If you're concerned about code execution speed please note that most Python data science libraries like numpy make heavy use of C/C++ code internally, so most of the computing-heavy stuff happens in a fast language (granted most operations are still slower when compared to a hand-coded Golang or C codebase). Julia might be a better alternative if you're looking for a modern language with great support for data science that's not Python.


Existing libraries in python make it possible to do stuff extremely quickly. Though it can make sense to use Golang for running ML models in production.





### [# Go and big data?](https://www.reddit.com/r/golang/comments/158odfx/go_and_big_data/)

>Go is pretty far behind here. Not a lot of data engineering done with Go.
>Benthos is decent, but pretty rudimentary compared to other systems such as Flink and Pulsar. It's more analogous to Heka, Airbyte, and Fluentd.
>Apache Beam is probably the most mature data pipeline framework. It's analogous to Flink or Spark, and allows building massively parallel, sophisticated stream or batch pipelines.
>The Go support is decent and maturing. However, there is no native runner written in Go. You either have to run pipelines on Google Dataflow, or self-host the Flink runner.


>One "problem" with data engineering in Go is that you go looking for a framework, but... you may not need one. I dabbled in that space, transforming JSON, and I didn't need a "framework". Streaming JSON was pretty easy. Splitting the two into chunks was easy. Recombining them was easy. Streaming them out on an io.Writer with gzip compression was easy. And it's so much more efficient than Python that where Python may need a big multi system cluster thing, Go just does it.
>I'm not saying that there's no room for a helpful framework. I am saying that reading the nominal bullet points on the supposed big data frameworks was often unimpressive, in that if they hadn't started with such a poor choice of language for handling big data, they wouldn't have had such a hard time building something up because they wouldn't have been trying to make up so much ground with a "framework"in the first place.







# Apps in Go

- [Benthos](https://github.com/benthosdev/benthos) is a high performance and resilient stream processor, able to connect various sources and sinks in a range of brokering patterns and perform hydration, enrichments, transformations and filters on payloads.

- [Go Dataframe](https://github.com/kfultz07/go-dataframe) is a simple package to abstract away the process of creating usable DataFrames for data analytics. This package is heavily inspired by the amazing Python library, Pandas.

- [Meteor](https://github.com/raystack/meteor) is a plugin driven agent for collecting metadata. Meteor has plugins to source metadata from a variety of data stores, services and message queues. It also has sink plugins to send metadata to variety of third party APIs and catalog services.

- [go-app](https://github.com/maxence-charriere/go-app) Go-app is a package for building progressive web apps (PWA) with the Go programming language (Golang) and WebAssembly (Wasm). It uses Go HTTP standard. An app created with go-app can out of the box run in its own window, supports offline mode, and is SEO friendly.

- [Glow](https://github.com/charmbracelet/glow) is a terminal based markdown reader designed from the ground up to bring out the beauty — and power — of the CLI. Use it to discover markdown files, read documentation directly on the command line and stash markdown files to your own private collection, so you can read them anywhere. Glow will find local markdown files in subdirectories or a local Git repository.

- [AWS Lambda Go core](https://github.com/lifadev/archive_aws-lambda-go-core), [AWS Lambda Go](https://github.com/lifadev/archive_aws-lambda-go), [AWS Lambda Go Shim](https://github.com/lifadev/archive_aws-lambda-go-shim). This project provides a native and full-featured shim for authoring your AWS Lambda functions in Go.





[# Why is Golang considered bad for big data? And why is scala considered better?](https://www.reddit.com/r/bigdata/comments/tgamr7/why_is_golang_considered_bad_for_big_data_and_why/)

Scala is popular mostly because Spark is written in it. If you had a mature distributed framework like spark written in Golang, I would consider it good for big data too.


Before making cookie-cutter claims posters on this sub should be forced to add a source. "People say" is usually someone's friend or colleague, also usually out of context.


Next, keep in mind Scala compiles into Java bytecode. All of the OG big data apps and tools were written in Java (MR, YARN, Hive, HBase, Kafka, etc.) so Scala is a functional and OOP language that is super compatible with all these other tools.

Last, certain structures of Scala itself lend very well to big data programming like lazy evaluation, functional design, immutability, strictly types, and map (+flat map) operations on iterators.


Golang is not good for batch processing just because the most popular framework (Spark) doesn't _really_ support it. Golang is fine for a consumer-producer model like consuming and processing Kafka streams.

Scala is considered better because of its expressivity, the fact that it's tightly integrated with Spark, and you can alternative between SQL and "the Scala way" and it's _basically_ the same thing (Declarative Programming).















# WARNING :: REDDIT COMMENTS AHEAD

>[!WARNING]


#### INTEL

- With built-in AI accelerators in Sapphire Rapids, Intel invested in the future, and it paid off.

- Ponte Vecchio is a joke at this point. Falcon Shores is probably do or die for Intel.

- It still boggles my mind that on breaking into completely new territory they sat down, said "we're going to make a MCM using 47 chiplets fabbed on 5 different nodes*", and nobody suggested that maybe they should learn to crawl before attempting the steeplechase

- Amd dc sales are taking off and intel is still struggling.

Spr is not a competitive product for the vast majority of workloads. Its fine here because who cares about the cpu performance. Cloud probably paying premium for bergamo chips, and you dont need a powerful 128 core here.


- I can well believe that the US wants the IT hardware its military uses to be made somewhere it won't be... interfered with.




#### NVIDIA

- NVIDIA wouldn't have a monopoly if they didn't create the market to begin with.

- Say what you will about Nvidia, but Jensen has done an amazing job staying a step ahead. He bet on AI years ago, expending money for something that didn't really have much of a market yet, and it's paying off big.

Same with data centers.

I've been buying their cards for decades. I don't see any reason to change that any time soon until there's a good reason to.


- It's truly impressive how Jensen manages to find these infinte money glitches every few years, each one with more exploding demand and scaled up products.

- Just when the devs are barely done fixing the last exploit, another endless growth market pops up.

- He's probably the best CEO in the US. Built Nvidia from nothing to $1.2 trillion company over ~30 years. His products are so valuable that the US government is weaponizing them for politics. US government is literally choosing which countries can or can't have Nvidia products.





#### OPENAI

- It's crazy how fast this whole OpenAI Sam Altman story has developed, and how many twists have occurred. OpenAI now has the ex-Twitch CEO as its interim CEO. 550/700 employees have signed documents stating they want the board members to step down. Ilya Sutskever, the linchpin in this whole fiasco has now publicly stated they regret siding with the board. Sam Altman has now joined Microsoft.

In less than a week the entire company has imploded.


- From OpenAI to ShutdownAI in a few easy steps! Turns out the tech company is only worth the people and grey matter that made it successful in the first place: if you remove those en masse, it all goes south pretty quickly and in a brutally chaotic manner.


- They fired the ceo and everyone went with him to microsoft. Microsoft's in control of all the compute resources to be delivered to openai, has access to all their tech and got the means to divert compute resources to this new "openai2.0" team that is now under full control of microsoft which can possibly pick up where they left off in a couple months

Microsoft no longer needs the current "openai" as a result and are no longer held back by the old board's ai safety restrictions. It's gotta be 1 of the most stupid shit the board could've done, they've made themselves irrelevant and created a bigger monster

- You rarely end up on top by accident. Seeing how MS won and is being painted as the victim/ savior ontop of it... they might have somehow instigated the whole thing.






# Revelation
# NEWS FLASH !!!!

>[!WARNING]

Who would have thought that :: 

- one should that should be able to walk before one can run and one does not simply make a MCM using 47 chiplets fabbed on 5 different nodes as a first attempt at a different market

- US wants the IT hardware its military uses to be made somewhere it won't be... interfered with.

- Investing in the future can pay off big.

- You effectively have a monopoly on the market you create

- Disruptive innovations can pay off big

- A tech company is only worth the people and grey matter that made it successful in the first place








# StackOverflow Developer Surveys

# 2021

### - C/C++

- ~ $ 55,000
- ~ 11 years
- 7,700 for C++; 6,300 for C; 14,000 combined

### - Rust
- ~ $ 77,000
- ~ 9.5 years
- 2,700 for rust

### - Go
- ~ $ 77,000
- ~ 10.5 years
- 4,800 for go

### - Haskell
- ~ $ 67,500
- ~ 10 years
- 650 for haskell

### - Julia
- ~ $ 67,500
- ~ 10.5 years
- 440 for julia




### - Java, JS, HTML/CSS, Nodejs

- ~ $ 53,000 for Java; $ 55,000 for HTML/CSS; $ 56,000 for JS; $ 57,000 for Nodejs
- ~ 10 years
- 14,000 for Java; 24,000 for HTML/CSS; 30,000 for JS; 16,000 for Nodejs; ~ 75,000 combined

### - Python

- ~ $ 62,000
- ~ 9.5 years
- 18,000 for python


Languages that stayed FLAT from 2021 -> 2023 in number of jobs ::
- C++
- HTML/CSS
- JS
- C#
- Perl
- 


Languages that FELL from 2021 -> 2023 in number of jobs ::
- Java 14K -> 12.7K
- Julia 440 -> 380
- R 1.9K -> 1.6K
- PHP 9.4K -> 8.2K
- Objective-C 1.4K -> 1.1K
- Swift 2.3K -> 2.2K
- Clojure 1K -> 660
- Haskell 650 -> 620
- Assembly 1.5K -> 1.4K
- C 6.3K -> 6.1K
- Ruby 3.7K -> 3.4K
- MATLAB 1.3K -> 1.2K



Languages that GROWED flat from 2021 -> 2023 in number of jobs ::
- Python 18K -> 20K
- TS 16K -> 20K
- RUST 2.8K -> 5.2K
- GO 4.8K -> 6.6K
- KOTLIN 3.7K -> 4.2K
- BASH 13K -> 15K
- ERLANG 400 -> 500
- SCALA 1.3K -> 1.5K
- LISP 484 -> 515



best paid jobs for experience ::
- Data scientist / machine learning specialist ::
	- 8.5 years
	- $ 65K
- Data engineer
	- 9.5 years
	- $ 70K
- Full-stack/Backend
	- 9.5 for full-stack, 10 for backend
	- $ 58K
- Site Reliability Engineer
	- 11
	- $ 85K
- DevOps
	- 11
	- $ 70K
- Manager
	- 13.5
	- $ 95K
- Senior/C-suite
	- 15
	- $ 95K