### [ALI SECRET TO CRUSHING IT IN ENGINEERING](https://youtu.be/MtSDjYrSW_I?feature=shared)

1. Do what nobody else is doing. Different results needs different actions.
2. If somebody else has done it before, then you can do it too.
3. Ensure success against all odds. Work hard enough to make it almost impossible to fail. That means more working.
4. Expect to suck when learning, especially in the initial stages of learning.
5. FOCUS
6. Assume people want to help you. Help them help you.
7. Don't avoid the hard thing. Do the hard thing.
8. If it is not physically impossible, then it is possible.




9. NEWS FLASH!! Different results needs different actions.

10. NEWS FLASH !! Focusing can get things done


11. If others can do it, then you can do it too.


12. Ensure success against all odds.
This needs more hours of working. Doing more than you need to increases odds of success.


5. Assume people want to help you. Help them help you.
There are people who want to help you. Find them.



7. Don't avoid the hard thing. Do the hard thing.
Results needs actions.



9. If it is not physically impossible, then it is possible.
You just need a more creative way.








### [HASKELL IS FASTER THAN C](https://youtu.be/271Q6-e1_Yg?feature=shared)

If X is faster than C, then you cannot write good C. Skill Issue.

It is easier to write better code in Haskell than it is to write in C. It is easier to do the write thing using pure functions.

The conspiracy theories were correct: linked list is a tree, a tree is a graph.

Not making it a concurrency mess is the hard part about parallelization

Rust, Go, Odin makes it easier to write fast code.





### [INSTAGRAM SYSTEM DESIGN](https://youtu.be/lrg8ZWI7MCg?feature=shared)

Core Principles:

1. Keep it simple.
2. Don't reinvent the wheel.
3. Use reliable technologies.



1. Load Balancer

Instagram uses Amazon Elastic Load Balancer. LB decides where the traffic goes to and distributes work across various servers and systems.

LB is 3 NGINX instances.


2. Application server

The main code for instagram runs on these servers.

25 servers that use Django framework.


3. Data Storage

Text data is in Postgre SQL.

12 extra-large memory databases, each with a replica.

Redis for retrieving data from databases.

Connection pooler between servers and database. Information from database is stored in 6 mem cache.


4. Object Storage

Images/videos are uploaded directly to Amazon S3 object storage. The URL and metadata for the image/video is stored in database.

CDN delivers files from object storage to end users.


5. pyapns

For sending out push notifications






### [ANASTASIA LANGUAGES FOR ELECTRICAL ENGINEERS](https://youtu.be/Ov1_FRso1gE?feature=shared)

VHDL
Verilog
C
Python





### [HASEKLL SYNTAX](https://youtu.be/gK0hMxJhqwM?feature=shared)

function name arguments = body of function


square x = x * x
squaremagnitude x y = square x + square y
squaremagnitude x y = sqrt (square x + square y)



Function :: X -> Y -> Z

X, Y :: types of arguments
Z :: type of return

square :: integer -> integer



Generic types are possible

Function :: a -> a -> b

a, b can be any type for which operations in function body are defined.




if-else:

foo = if <condition> then <true_expression> else <false_expression>

// in C ::
foo = <condition> ? <true_expression> : <false_expression>



switch

sign x | x < 0 = 1  // case 1
		| x > 0 = -1  // case 2
		| otherwise = 0 //  case else




### [WHY LEARN HASKELL IN 2023](https://youtu.be/6qz9Ajun2nM?feature=shared)


GO has FEARLESS CONCURRENCY, Rust is MEMORY-SAFE. Haskell has both FEARLESS CONCURRENCY *and* MEMORY-SAFE.




- Pure functional
- Garbage collection
- Native code compiler [GHC]
- Green Thread [Goroutines for GO people]
- Lazy
- Statically typed




Statically Typed, Referential Transperancy

Explicitly show that IO operation has been done.

Typescript for function that returns the addition of two numbers ::
function add (a: number, b: number): number {
	print ("Hello world")
	return (a + b)
}

Haskell ::
add :: Integer -> Integer -> IO (Integer)
add a b = do
	putStrln "Hello world"
	return (a + b)




Typeclass

Like interfaces but much more powerful. Abstracts over a type constructor.


FEARLESS CONCURRENCY, THREAD SAFETY, TRANSACTIONAL MEMORY








### [STOIC WAYS TO INCREASE INTELLIGENCE](https://youtu.be/HjpYMxPjcqc?feature=shared)

> The soul becomes dyed with the color of its thoughts.
> ---- Marcus Aurelius


Every idea shapes who you become.


1. Embracing change as a teacher

Change is a natural part of life. Growth is always accompanied by change. 
Change pushes us out of comfort zone and challenges us to adapt. The learning to thrive amidst change sharpens our intelligence and resilience.

> Loss is nothing else but change, and change is nature's delight.
> ---- Marcus Aurelius

See change as an opportunity to learn something new.


2. Embracing discomfort for growth

Path to true intelligence and wisdom lies outside your comfort zone. Embracing discomfort is a powerful tool for personal growth. It is the moments of discomfort that have the greatest opportunities for growth.

With every challenge you overcome, you are not gaining new skills, but also becoming more resilient.

> The obstacle is the way.
> ---- Marcus Aurelius

The challenges we face are not barriers to our growth, but rather the path to growth itself. By reframing challenge as opportunity, we can harness its power to propel ourselves forwards.



3. Practice of deliberate disengagement

A purposeful step back from our usual routines to refresh our perspectives and rejuvenate our minds. By practising deliberate disengagement, we give our mind the space it needs to process, learn and grow.


4. Maintaining lifelong learning

The end of formal education doesn't mark the end of learning. If anything, its just the beginning. Every day presents new opportunities to learn and grow.

The concept of lifelong learning is not about amassing degrees or certificates, but nurturing a genuine curiosity and thirst for knowledge that lasts a lifetime.

> Only the educated are truly free
> ---- Epictetus

Again, its not just about formal education. Its about the freedom that comes from understanding, from broadening our horizons and from continuously seeking knowledge. When we commit to lifelong learning, we equip ourselves with tools to navigate the complexities of life with grace and wisdom.

Learning is not just about consuming content. Its about reflection and application in our everyday lives.

As you move forward, remember that every day is a classroom, every interaction a lesson and every challenge an opportunity to learn.



5. Cultivating gratitude as a gateway to wisdom

At first glance,gratitude seems like an emotion, a fleeting feeling we experience when someone does something kind for us.

Stoics saw gratitude as lens through which we can view the world and in turn deepen our understanding and intelligence.

Gratitude pushes us to recognize the value of every moment, every interaction and every challenge. Gratitude ground us in the present moment. We become more observant, more reflective and more open to the wisdom that surrounds us. Gratitude amplifies our ability to see, learn and grow.





6. The power of mindful observations





8. The art of active listening

True intelligence is not just about speaking, its about listening. And not just hearing words, but genuinely understanding them. Active listening is more than just being silent when someone else talks. Its about being present, giving them your full attention and seeking to understand their perspective fully.

When we are listening, we are not just being polite. We are absorbing knowledge, understanding different viewpoints and broadening our horizons. By truly listening, we open ourselves up to a vast world of knowledge and experiences that can enrich our minds and souls.







8. Seeking silence amidst the noise

Our surroundings are filled with sounds, from notifications from our phones to the constant hum and chatter. Its rare to find a moment of true silence.

The moments where we disconnect from external noise and connect with our inner selves are essential for deep reflection and growth. Silence is not just the absence of noise. It is the space where our thoughts can breathe, where we confront our feelings, reflect on our actions and plan our next steps.

> We suffer more often in imagination than in reality.
> ---- Sencea

Many of our fears and anxieties are self-created. By stepping back and immersing ourselves in silence, we can distinguish between genuine concerns and imagined worries, allowing us to address the former and ignore the latter.





9. Value of diverse interactions




10. Cultivating curiosity over judgement

Cultivating curiosity can be a profound way to increase our intelligence and understanding of the world around us. When you approach people or ideas with an open mind, we allow ourselves the opportunity to learn and grow.

Instead of dismissing something because its unfamiliar or different, we ask questions, we seek to understand. This not only broadens our horizons, but also deepens our empathy and compassion.

> It is impossible for a person to begin to learn what he thinks he already knows.
> ---- Epictetus

