# [# The Rational Male: Summary, Review, & Criticism](https://thepowermoves.com/the-rational-male/)


# [# The Rational Alpha Male Mindsets: Post-Red Pill](https://thepowermoves.com/the-rational-male/)




# Sadia Psychology

[High Value Man -- Woman]

Self-control is ability to control yourself to lead to positive outcomes for you in the long run. Your ability to exercise self-control is your value.

Somebody without ability to exercise self-control is doomed.

"I can fix him/her" does not work.

A woman who has intrinsic value is high-value. Intrinsic value means how connected she is to her family, friends, how does she serve her family and friends. Woman who relies on external validation for self-esteem needs infinite external validation and so much validation is not healthy.

Have reasonable expectations.


[HOW TO GET ANY WOMAN YOU WANT]

As woman becomes more independent, she gets treated as independent and gets less attention. Be a damsel in distress to attract attention.


[Get the girl you want this way pt 3]

Ask out more. Face more rejections.

Selectively kind, feeling special attracts woman. However, selective kindness does not lead to a healthy long-term relationship. If he is selectively kind to others, then eventually he will be selectively kind to you as well.

Be with someone who has non-zero standards.

She shouldn't feel that she is out of your league.

Frame. A man who has a strong frame knows what he believes, where he is going, what he deserves, who doesn't depend on other's opinions. Frame and consequently confidence, assertiveness from it is attractive.


[What women find attractive]

Men want connection, intimacy and feel loved.

Women find boundaries attractive irrespective of what they say. Men find nurturing women attractive.

"Your happiness is my happiness" attitude create healthy long-term relationships.

Role of man in relationship is to lead.


[What turns off women]

Women want to feel safe and protected. Boundaries and standards and not letting her walk all over you make women feel safe and protected.

Woman want a man to lead her. Women trust you to lead them when you dont't let her walk all over you.


[Marriages]
[HOW TRAUMA EFFECTS MEN IN RELATIONSHIPS]

 Arranged marriages can have lower divorce rates because families choose partners that share similar values and upbringing. This ensures a higher likelihood of compatibility and understanding and consequently lead to longer lasting relationships.

Choose a partner with a stable upbringing and a supportive family, who desires and values emotional connection over lifestyle. Choose a partner based on how she behaves, someone who will not create drama.

Women now have a sense of entitlement where women expect financial investment without contributing to domestic duties, where women expect a certain lifestyle without taking care of their partners. Choose a partner who is ready to add value and contribute to the relationship.


Prioritize long-term goals in relationships. Long-term goals should form the basis of long-term relationships, not initial feelings or romance.


Childhood determines relationship dynamics.

Children who grew up in broken homes develop fear of abandonment. Hyper-attachment or hyper-independent are responses to fear of abandonment. Hyper-independent response manifests as emotional distance and a reluctance to fully commit, even though they do care for their partner. Independent people attract clingy partners, who reinforce their belief that they are not loved correctly.

Lack of a supportive father figure who provides emotional and financial security in woman's childhood creates fear of abandonement. Women need to be loved. Women who have experienced abandonment in don't feel secure in relationships. Consequently, they are more likely to cheat.


Rich men often attract women who prioritize the lifestyle over emotional connection. This combined with those women having more free time and access to a network of eligible bachelors makes those women more likely to cheat. Boredom and a desire for a luxurious lifestyle can lead to infidelity.




She also stresses that successful couples are those who give their full effort and support each other both emotionally and financially. 




[Spotting HIGH QUALITY WOMEN]

Men reward promiscuity.

You need to drop your standards to get high body count.

Sleeping around with lots of women makes it harder to setlle down with one woman. Settling down with one women will feel monotonous.

When you in a long term relationship, you are willing to invest your time and energy to please and satisfy your partner. You attempt to create real intimacy.

Choose someone who chooses you.


[Part 1- Godless Women, Sexual liberation, Breaking down the home and Why men love influencers]

[What is Femininity and how can women be more Feminine?]

Femininity is being
- Vulnerable: recieve love/help from others
- Nurturing: Taking care of other's needs before they say it

Woman's true needs are loving and loved and staying close to loved ones.

Proactively communicate your needs.




## Better Call George

(Not a Clickbait. 100% Real Secret HOW TO MAKE ALL WOMEN INSTANTLY ATTRACTED TO YOU WITHOUT WORDS.)[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_8-dNEjrb_M]

Key: never be overexcited with a girl. No smiles. Smirk instead. Calm, cool, no big deal attitude. 

So don't show off and don't act fake.

Solution :: Be with women feel so that being with women becomes natural for you. 




(Clear Explanation why women DESPISE Nice Guys and You Should Too)[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lBhY2vY2Qe0]

Media, society and even women want you to believe that women want money, car, house.

Women want a fearless leader who is not afraid of confrontations, who knows to say no, who will not violate his principles for anyone, who is ready to put her in her place when needed.


(Revealing My Secret How I Can Easily Manipulate Women. Women's Logic 101)[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=04Uln0Iivjc]
(The Secret to Predict, Manipulate, Understand and Control ANY Woman)[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2oMOKmlv6sk]

Women are like child. They have the thinking capacity and intelligence of a 10 yo.

Female brain is not capable of rational thinking and making conclusions. Female brain undergoes meltdown everytime it tries to process anything.

For a female to submit to you and obey you, you need to become a person of authority for her. To become a figure of authority for her, she has to have huge amount of respect for you.

For a female to respect you, you need make decisions for her and be able to do everything better than her. So don't ask female for where to go on for a date, select a dress when she asks you to select a dress. Don't discuss, just tell her what to do.

As a man, you are responsible for everything and decision making. Refuse to be manipulated.


Random comment ::

> You are right. My biggest mistake regarding women in my past life was to take them seriously. To ask and discuss topics with them on the same level like you do with your brother or best friends. A woman hates nothing more than to be responsible and to be held responsible. They want to have the feeling that they rule, but they don’t want to have to feeling that they can be made responsible for the outcome. This you have to keep in mind when interacting with women. This discussion whether “yes means yes or no means no” is just a distortion from the reality that women don’t want to take responsiblity for their actions and want you to take this burden for them. Then a lot of things are possible…

> This reminded me about a situation I had with my ex. She used to be in charge of cooking because I didn't have time for it, I know how to cook though, but It was more convenient for me to have her take care of the cooking. One time she had to help her sister with some stuff and she couldn't cook, she assumed I was not going to eat until she got home or something. When she got home, she saw the great meal I prepared for myself and I left some for her, when she tried it, she loved it. The thing is that after that I could see how she was behaving kind of insecure and started to act very submissive, I was able to tell how she felt she lost "power" in the relationship after that event. I have to add that I've always been a handy man, I know how to fix pretty much everything around the house.  
When a woman see that you are capable of being completely fine without her, that's when they feel very attracted to you, that's why when they see that you are not afraid of ending the relationship at any time, they will respect you. I think that's one of the most powerful thing men have, but nowadays they seem to have forgotten that.

> I've always thought this, but it is brilliant to apply this mentality immediately when interacting with women. They really are 10yr old children...and (American) society certainly allows for this behavior to continue and worsen. They have zero consequences for acting like children, whilst men could never dream of it. It's honestly a good thing for us men in the end. I've genuinely been loving the process of maturing, and feel more powerful with each passing year. I'd hate to suffer being in a child-state while pushing 40, 50, 60...I love my mother to death, but she is perfect example of this...and she is 72...all the same issues: Nothing is ever her fault, loses temper and patience easily when divulging in conversation, and acts exclusively on her current emotional state. She never grew up...and I can also see how she suffers with it.

> With picking up, dating, stealing someone’s girl or getting a woman back I learned at 15, 16 yrs old from my Uncle you keep your conversation strictly about fun for her. Not spoiling or doing this FOR her but for the both of us. No talk about business or responsibility. After you get her locked in to this then you introduce responsibilities, give her directions to only participate in business. She feels she’s helping and apart of a team

> Totally.  I used to expect my wife to be an adult and we would argue all the time and she would be unhappy.  As soon as I started to have expectations of her as a child and treat her like one she was a lot happier and we get along better


(You must BREAK a woman, to have a HEALTHY Relationship)[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AKWJ3i0GBFA]

Be someone your wife can look up to, an authority figure. Be emotionally strong.

Stand by your word. Assert your boundaries.

Put her in her place when she crosses boundaries fairly. Be ready to walk away from her when she refuses to comply.


(Women Constantly Compete For Men, Unfortunately Most Men Don't See This Undercover Battle)[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=H281PuXioOk]

Women compete for men. Beliving this will boost your confidence.


(The Most Effective Exercise to Become Confident with Women)[https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=shTgJCqag2M]

Smash to gain confidence. Push through the awkward stage.

