### [STOP BEING AVERAGE DEVELOPER](https://youtu.be/kvH0fi722Nk?feature=shared)

1. Good communication skills is necessary along with good coding skills.

You need to know how to ::
 - talk to people
 - communicate with people
 - write/talk about your projects


2. Don't try to reinvent the wheel

Use existing projects/libraries as much as possible.

Your project should be unique, something different.


3. Touch grass

Do something other than programming




### [CONCURRENCY IN GO](https://youtu.be/LvgVSSpwND8?feature=shared)

go before any function call executes it in parallel. The function becomes goroutine.

Goroutines are very efficient. You can make thousands of goroutines.

All goroutines terminate when the main () exits. So when main has *only* goroutines, main () terminates before the goroutines terminate. Consequently, all goroutines terminate prematurely.

Use ```time.Sleep (time.Millisecond * 2000)``` or ```fmt.Scanln ()``` to keep goroutines alive. Sleep works only till the time specified, Scanln works forever.


Use `WaitGroup` from `"sync"` library to keep track of goroutines. `WaitGroup` is counter.

```
var wg sync.WaitGroup
wg.Add (1)
wg.Done ()
wg.Wait ()
```

`wg.Add (1)` increases waitgroup count by 1, `wg.Done ()` decreases waitgroup count by 1. `main ()` (and consequently all goroutines) stay alive till waitgroup value remains non-zero. When waitgroup value becomes zero, `main ()` terminates.


Channel is a way for goroutines to communicate with each other.

```
Creation of channel ::
var c1 := make (chan string)

Passing channel as arguments ::
func printname (name string, c1 chan string) {

}


Passing channels as arguments such that func only sends or receives data over channel ::
Only sends data :
func printname (name string, c1 chan <- string) {

}

Only receives data :
func printname (name string, c1 <- chan string) {

}


Sending data over channel ::
c1 <- name

Reciving data from channel ::
name := <- c1

CLose the channel ::
close (c1)
```

Sending and receiving data over channels is blocking operations. This means routine waits for the send/receive operation to complete.

For eg., suppose a routine is listening on a channel, but no data has been sent over the channel yet. Then the routine waits till something is sent over channel and receive operation is completed.

This blocking nature of channels can be used to synchronize goroutines.

When you don't expect to send more data over the channel, close the channel with `close ()`.


For loops can directly iterate over values in a channel.

```
for i := range c1 {
	fmt.println (i)
}
```

This for loop automatically iterates over all values received over channel and automatically terminates when c1 is closed.


Consider the following code snippet ::
```
c1 := make (chan string)

c1 <- "hello"

s1 := <- c1
fmt.Println (s1)
```

This code gets into deadlock. Send/receive are blocking operations. Code waits for a receiver to exist on channel c1 on line `c1 <- "hello"`. But this never happens as receiver is after this line and code is waiting on this line.

Send operation is completed only when some goroutine is already listening on the channel.

To avoid send operation from blocking code,
1. have receive operation is another goroutine
2. use buffers

```
Make a channel with buffer size 4 ::
c1 := make (chan string, 4)
```

With buffers, send operations are non-blocking till buffer is not full.



Consider following code ::

```
c1 := make (chan string)
c2 := make (chan string)

go func () {
	for {
		c1 <- "Every 500ms"
		time.Sleep (time.Millisecond * 500)
	}
}

go func () {
	for {
		c2 <- "Every 2000ms"
		time.Sleep (time.Millisecond * 2000)
	}
}


for {
	fmt.Printlm (<- c1)
	fmt.Println (<- c2)
}
```


`fmt.Println (<- c2)` in last for loop is blocking. It waits for data to be sent over c2. Therefore, more 500ms messages are not printed than 2000ms messages.

To make receive operation non-blocking here, use select.

```
for {
	select {
		case msg1 := <- c1 :
			fmt.Printlm (<- c1)
		
		case msg2 := <- c2 :
			fmt.Println (<- c2)
	}
}
```

This prints whatever channel happens to have data.


Worker pools. Add/remove items over channel.


```
func main () {
	jobstodo := make (chan int, 100)
	results := make (chan int, 100)
	
	go workerpool (jobstodo, results)
	
	for i := 0; i < 100; i++ {
		jobstodo <- i
	}
	
	close (jobstodo)
	
	for i := 0; i < 100; i ++ {
		fmt.Println (<- results)
	}
}


func workerpool (jobstodo <- chan int, results chan <- int) {
	//Only receives over jobstodo channel;
	//Only sends over results channel;
	
	for jobs := range jobstodo {
		results <- fact (jobs)
	}
}


func fact (n int) int{
	if n <= 1 :
		return n
	
	return n * fact (n - 1)
}
```


