# DataStax Apache Cassandra

- [Workshop](https://github.com/DataStax-Academy/workshop-cassandra-certification)
- [Fundamentals](https://github.com/datastaxdevs/workshop-cassandra-fundamentals)
- [Data Modelling](https://github.com/datastaxdevs/workshop-cassandra-data-modeling)
- [Cassandra Application Development](https://github.com/datastaxdevs/workshop-cassandra-application-development)
- [K8ssandra](https://github.com/datastaxdevs/workshop-k8ssandra)




# Cassandra

Cassandra was designed huge amounts of data. Cassandra makes huge tradeoffs to focus on scalability and availability, at the cost of flexibility.




# Database Insights

### 1

Non-relational databases are great for large-scale transactional systems. They trade consistency and flexibility for scale, availability and latency.


Replicating data across various databases requires engineering that is non-trivial. Consequently, most companies just cannot/aren't willing to invest in it.

Single RDBMS [Postgres, SQLite, Redis] is a reasonable solution for a lot of software and will remain so for some time.

In general, there are some pretty large advantages to maximizing the simplest solution before pursuing anything more complicated.


That being said, with:
- the existence of cloud-managed services,
- RDBMS gaining document storage features,
- document DBs gaining fancier indexing over time,
- replication abstracted away by cloud providers, 
in the long run there won't even really be "sides". You'll just pick access, replication, etc. configurations.


### 2


At a sufficiently large scale, it cheaper to manually build and manage databases. Otherwise its best to use a managed service like DynamoDB.




# Cassandra Reddit


### [# Couchbase vs Mongo for reactive microservices on k8s](https://www.reddit.com/r/kubernetes/comments/imxusx/couchbase_vs_mongo_for_reactive_microservices_on/)

>Here's my professional opinion that I tell customers on a weekly basis.
>Do not run databases in K8s.
>DBs thrive on RAM and I/O.
>Kube is too many layers of abstraction for the best performance.
>Small 10-20mb databases might be ok, but do not exceed.


### [# What is the correct use case for NoSql](https://www.reddit.com/r/node/comments/fr7nj2/what_is_the_correct_use_case_for_nosql/)


>The smart thing to do is consider what kind of data your use case needs, and then think of which database you should use. As it has been said many times, most data is relational so in most cases an actual SQL database is both easier to use, easier to maintain and much more performant.
>A great article in the other post you are referencing: [http://www.sarahmei.com/blog/2013/11/11/why-you-should-never-use-mongodb/](http://www.sarahmei.com/blog/2013/11/11/why-you-should-never-use-mongodb/)


>In general applications where reads are more important than writes at least 100 to 1000 reads per 1 write. Also the reader must tolerate inconsistencies in the data and writes must follow simple repetitive patterns.
>Read only data structures like data marts and data warehouses fit this model.
>They are also god for holding logs and application metrics and time series data.


>my corporate experience:
>Device telemetries(vehicles, terminals, any kind of iot...), we receive tens of thousands per day.


>The responses here kind of surprise of me. Sure there’s some use cases that are data modeling and structure specific but the real case for NoSQL even existing is simply scaling and cost. Rdbs rely on computationally expensive table joins to respond to queries. The problem is that it was designed at a time when the most expensive resource was storage not cpu processing. Times have changed and the most expensive resource is now processing. Storage is cheap. So big data producers rely much more heavily on NoSQL simply to reduce costs.
>The reduced cost however comes at the cost of complexity. Make no mistake their data is still relational, however they have to manage those relations themselves vs relying on the rdbs. But their additional complexity can be mitigated some. By the time they have a real need to move to a NoSQL solution they should have plenty of usage data to identify their access patterns that need to be optimized. If you’re not clear on your access patterns a NoSQL solution can be a fucking nightmare. Which is why I suspect so many folks here are pooping on it in general.
>Here’s a video of a guy way smarter than me explaining it:
>[https://youtu.be/HaEPXoXVf2k?t=2m30s](https://youtu.be/HaEPXoXVf2k?t=2m30s)
>You don’t need to watch the whole thing just the part where he discusses the history. If you’re into dynamo db optimizations however feel free.
>The bigger picture however is that for most use cases we’re not scaling enough for it to matter. So IMO you’re better off not taking on the additional complexity of a NoSQL solution and even more so if you’re not scaling beyond a single rdbs instance or sharding or anything like that, you won’t have anything to worry about. If you get to a point where you’re struggling to scale your db cost effectively then you’re probably crazy successful.



### [# Which databases do you hate the least at scale?](https://www.reddit.com/r/devops/comments/pj3ctj/which_databases_do_you_hate_the_least_at_scale/)

>Cloud managed ones
>This.
>I was about to go off into some commentary about relational vs. others, and how its not a fair comparision, but, yeah, this.


>Postgres.
>Anyone who says Oracle is either a liar or a masochist. Cassandra scales well, it's just a pain in the dick to manage at ANY scale, like, if you're not the guy running it, Cassandra is a dream.


>DynamoDB or Cassandra. Aurora if you must use SQL.


>DynamoDB and Postgres


>Cloud managed PostgreSQL. Aurora or Cloud SQL.




### [# Is it really possible to replace mongodb with cassandra?](https://www.reddit.com/r/cassandra/comments/12ajyfy/is_it_really_possible_to_replace_mongodb_with/)


>Remember that Cassandra was designed with the premise that you're using huge amounts of data so arbitrary queries aren't expected to be scalable no matter the database. Cassandra makes huge tradeoffs to focus on scalability and availability, at the cost of flexibility. So, Cassandra is great when:
>- You know how you're going to query the data
>- You care more about availability/scalability than developer convenience
>- You can 100% replace Mongo with Cassandra. And you can 100% use Cassandra as your primary data store. You just have to be deliberate and design your database.


>Cassandra is for low latency and precompute oriented with query tables. Depends on your partition design, full partition scan on a column is not that expensive if you don't have too many rows in your partition. Of course full scan is worse than query or filter tables, but it is easy to implement and release.
>If you don't know beforehand your main data accesses, then Cassandra won't really help you compared to row oriented datastores. You use cassandra to design lots of columns so you define write column processes and read specific columns as well with great reliability and performance, which is huge for primary datastore. If you want ways to find data in it, you can feed elastic search from your cassandra data for instance, check elassandra for instance.


>IMO it depends what you're doing with mongo. If you're using it's elaborate query functionality or aggregations then no I don't see Cassandra being a very good candidate. If you're just using mongo to warehouse data and need fast writes then yeah it could be a good candidate.
>Elastic might be better if you do need to run boolean queries and aggregations etc.


>When I first started with it I wanted it to be for everything, but it really isn't. In theory 90% of applications could use it.. but 90% of applications could be hand coded in assembly. So now I think of it as an acceleration tool.
>But designing in Cassandra early is good because by the time your data and application is big enough that you need it, its going to be more high stakes to port it and stress will compound if your db access depends on a large number of features.
>The problem with premature optimization is not that optimization doesn't matter and you should focus on higher priority things first, it's that when it matters you will be better informed on how to do it than you are right now. By staying out of Cassandra you have higher probability of making it so when you do offload to it the database can be structured around real needs.
>But if long term you want to use Casandra you should convince everyone that simple key->document is a turning capable storage strategy, any application can be built with it, and that if you keep db access more or less to it you have guaranteed turn key infinite scalability when you stick to it. And that's worth more than a game of feature use bingo.

### [# When would you choose a non-RDBMS?](https://www.reddit.com/r/ExperiencedDevs/comments/u5xfy0/when_would_you_choose_a_nonrdbms/)

>There's a LOT of use cases for retrieving/storing entire documents/objects by their primary key in transactional systems. In fact, I'd even go so far as to say that most transactional workloads are probably better served by non-relational database. This is precisely what non-relational databases are great at. They excel at high scale and tend to favor availability and latency which is a very desirable combination of traits for high scale transactional systems but it comes at the expense of consistency and of course being non-relational.
>Here's where I think a lot of people go astray though and back themselves into a corner where the only logical conclusion is relational databases: they start considering non-transactional workloads like analytics or even fancy UIs that render your transactional data in ways that join with other things and they get hung up on thinking that there can only be one database to serve every one of these needs. If you need to run analytics, the UI, and the transactional system off the same database, RDBMS is probably the way to go, but this is a false requirement, at least in theory.
>Now, to some degree, I think this is actually appropriate for the vast majority of software, because the vast majority of software doesn't really need the kind of scale where non-relational databases provide actual value above and beyond what a nicely optimized RDBMS can offer. Additionally, most entire organizations don't scale big enough that the analytics, UI, and transactional needs get in the way of each other.Truly, if you do a good job managing indexes and are willing to pay to vertically scale an RDBMS, they can scale quite a bit higher than most people might realize.
>On the flip side, I think much of the reason why so many systems run on only a single relational database is because it simply requires a certain degree of engineering effort to replicate data across different types of databases that most companies just aren't willing to invest in. And maybe they're right to think that way. The effort required to pull off replicating data is non-trivial to say the least. You also have to consider the effect on your system's actual behavior. One thing RDBMS tends to give you for free is the notion that there's a single centralized immediately consistent data store with read-your-own-writes semantics, and this assumption gets baked into the very core of many systems. There's a subtle difference between hitting a "checkout" button and receiving a message like "OK, done, you order number is 12345 and we've notified the shipping department and your tracking number is 67890" which does a vast amount of synchronous work, compared to a dramatically more async system where checking out successfully tells you little more than "OK we got your order, we'll send you a receipt soon", while numerous other systems asynchronously consume events or await commands from some process orchestrator.
>Anyway, I think a single RDBMS is going to be a reasonable solution for a LOT of software for quite some time and I don't necessarily think that's wrong. I'd say once you get to the scale where your business units are stepping on each other's toes locking up the database, or your transaction volume is getting so high that you can see the end of vertical scaling in sight, you should start investing in pursuing eventual consistency, running your transactional workloads on non-relational databases, getting to know your favorite distributed message bus like Kafka, and skilling up on the difference between events and commands and going back to the drawing board on modeling your core domain workflows to decide if orchestration or choreography is the way to go for you.
>In a nutshell, I think it's a bit of a maturity model and most software has no need to mature enough to justify non-relational DBs
>Phase 1: Monolithic RDBMS, immediate consistency everywhere, read your own writes, DB generated IDs
>Phase 2: Monolithic RDBMS in terms of writes, some eventual consistency mostly in the form of materialized views or read-replicas
>Phase 3: Beginning to draw bounded contexts around transactional services, more eventual consistency, usage of async messaging via message bus, maybe here you start seriously considering non-relational databases
>Phase 4: Fully isolated bounded contexts, data replication happening both within contexts and among them with messaging, separate view model composition layers for complicated UIs, separate datastores purpose built for analytics materialized from event streams, the right database chosen for the task at hand with little regard to all the previous benefits of RDBMS because enabling this behavior with a single database is untenable at this scale
>**Edit:** This got way more attention than I thought it would, and that it probably deserves, so let me add some clarifications.
>First, by no means do I think that NoSQL is better than RDBMS. I didn't even mention a single specific NoSQL or RDBMS product on purpose, because I don't want to this to just be about specific tools.
>Second, my little aside about there being a maturity model wasn't to say that mature engineering organizations use NoSQL. Rather, mature engineering organizations have the ability to make decisions without some of the limitations smaller or less mature organizations might have, such of lacking knowledge and experience with certain data stores, and tooling related to replicating data across different data stores. This is a very non-trivial effort. I absolutely don't fault a small org with little NoSQL experience for choosing an RDBMS, in fact I think that's a very responsible decision. In general, I think there are some pretty large advantages to maximizing the simplest solution before pursuing anything more complicated, and this definitely applies here. If you don't have an objective reason for pursuing a technology change you probably shouldn't do it, and the specific constraint of out-scaling an RDBMS is pretty rare overall.
>Third, somebody made an excellent call-out in response to my post basically saying that as databases become cloud managed services the differences between them start to fade away, and this is 100% true. My post is framing things from a bit of a historical context and a simplified context just to help convey some of the fundamental differences between approaches, however, RDBMS systems are gaining document storage features over time and document/object storage systems are gaining fancier indexing over time, plus they're both having the replication abstracted away by cloud providers. So in the long run there won't even really be "sides" to this issue, rather, you'll just pick various configuration options: do you want SQL access, how much replication do you want, what replication strategy would you like to use, etc. We're already rapidly heading this way. When you really get right down to it, today, the only really crucial difference is what you want the semantics of access to be, whether it's SQL or document/object fetch semantics.




### [# Need advice on database cluster infrastructure in AWS/GCP](https://www.reddit.com/r/devops/comments/j94wrc/need_advice_on_database_cluster_infrastructure_in/)

>My mantra lately is that if you don’t have DBAs specialized in the DB you’re running, it’s pretty much mandatory to use a managed service. I’ve been burned far too many times by my devs/devops/SREs trying to get by running their own MySQL or couchbase or mongo or whatever. And if you have neither the ability to go managed nor the DBAs, then you made a potentially fatal architectural choice.


>Its a crime to run a full fledged database on ec2... Its 2020 folks.... used a managed service if you can.


>We run self hosted ES, Kafka, zookeeper, cassandra, redis on AWS. We are running about 15 million USD per year ec2 instances for those services. On AWS managed this would run about 20 to 25 million usd depending. Instantly there is a 33% saving on the ec2 box vs the managed service price, secondly depending on the cluster, i3en.3xlarge boxes offer us another huge saving as that box type is not available on the hosted clusters (mostly ES for that). Our DBRE team costs about 400k usd per year on salarys, 3 of us.
>We also have in my eyes better metrics collected and stored for longer. Because we look at DBs all day we can spot stupidity quickly, when we import hosted clusters that developers thought were setup correctly, it's normally a string of misunderstood settings/setups.
>The moral, you can scale hosted setup in AWS sure, once your wallet scales with it. I'd definitely recommend AWS hosted if you are a small shop as it's a full time job keeping an internal SLA for DBs
>	This guy DBs.


>I know I’m beating a dead horse here but you really need to consider moving to DynamoDB. The amount of work it will take to move to DynamoDB will be FAR less than the amount of work it will be maintaining these DBs. Not to mention that instead of using ASGs you can just increase your read / writes and use a bunch of other fancy tools. From a org standpoint, anybody with an associate cert knows how to manage it and it’s easy to integrate into any app.



### [# Real cases where MongoDB outshines PostgreSQL/MariaDB/MySQL ?](https://www.reddit.com/r/node/comments/snq7v6/real_cases_where_mongodb_outshines/)

>I've used it in four companies since 2011 and in all cases its usage was regretted and it was either migrated away from to another platform, or the desire to do so was there.
>It's difficult and expensive to host and gets into a big mess without huge discipline.
>For almost all web application use cases I'd use one of Postgres, Redis, or SQLite.
>If high volume unstructured data is required then I'd use Cosmos, or Dynamo, but most applications don't hit the limits of optimised pg.


>The option of having dynamic document props: imagine collecting logs from different systems that share a few common props: ip, timestamp etc. After collecting some for a while you want to add a new system logs: you won't have to alter the schema to do so. (Not to mention the ease of analysis since you'll only have to query a single collection - no union operations etc - less dev complexity). However if you want to add an index for some the new props you'll have to run some scripts etc (also there are better nosql solutions for this example).
>It also outshines in read/write speeds (again not transactional) performed on big collections.
>Another real advantage is the scaling and indexing option: at least for mysql/mariadb partitioning a table (best case when having loads of data) does add some limitations for indices.
>However, there are downsides as well. Most of the time a combo of both (sql + nosql) is the best solution depending on the project needs (transactional data in sql, rest in nosql - enrichment of data from both systems if they are related)



>Man NOBODY yet has been able to come up with a real use scenario. No, saying “it’s for unstructured data” is not a real example. Saying you use it at work is not an example. “It Scales like crazy” is, you guessed it, not a real example.
>	
>		Every time I see the posible use of nosql in a project, a couple hours into planning, I just hit a wall that ends up needing a relational database. Maybe I’m missing something.
>			Logging, where you don't need the fast recall, and you have no idea what is going into the DB. Streaming in some tweets? Logging performance of your API endpoints? Send it off and forget about it.


>The only real case where it outshines good SQL is when you need a frontend developer (who doesn’t know how to join tables) to do a full stack application and your budget won’t allow someone better.


>MongoDB is still a thing? I remember when it made SQL obsolete and nobody would shut up about how you can't scale SQL, but then nobody used Mongo and it kind of disappeared. Is it still being pushed in early courses and bootcamp?




### [# Is Mongo as popular in the job world as it is with tutorial makers?](https://www.reddit.com/r/node/comments/vn2awc/is_mongo_as_popular_in_the_job_world_as_it_is/)

>Mongo is definitely not common in the corporate world and I've never encountered someone with a real job praising it.
>Many SQL based databases support proper JSON as a field type now, I'd suggest using that if you want to store data that has a structure that is inefficient for normalized databases.


>It's popular in tutorials because it's easy to set up and prototype with. There's no schema / tables to set up like with relational databases, which is fine for prototyping. Unfortunately, many projects start out as experimental prototypes and turn into production systems due to time constraints and you're stuck with this pretty bad tech stack in the end.
>I would _not_ ever use mongo if given the choice. See thread comments for why not to use it.
>Source: I have to work with mongo on a daily basis. Have been doing so for almost two years now. I hate it.
>[https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/uvgkkb/in_mongodb_you_can_have_duplicate_items_even_if/i9mb957/?utm_source=reddit&utm_medium=web2x&context=3](https://www.reddit.com/r/programming/comments/uvgkkb/in_mongodb_you_can_have_duplicate_items_even_if/i9mb957/?utm_source=reddit&utm_medium=web2x&context=3)


>Great question, and pretty funny that at the time of writing all(!) 27 responses say 'no', and I can only agree. I've seen _several_ companies start with Mongo and realize soon after this was a pretty big mistake.
>There's no such thing as schemaless, in Mongo however the schema is implied and not strictly enforced. That's rarely a good thing in real-world applications.


>Nope. There was a time when it was the "next cool thing" but now it's almost exclusively the butt of jokes in the workplace. And this is from working a few different places and have friends elsewhere. The reason is because it's built on some false premises and its easy to do basic things but the accrued technical debt bites you in the end. It also has a certain reputation because its marketing and sales department is huge compared to the engineering department, which you wont see with Postgres, for example.
>transactions - these are easy to ignore at first but there will be point in time you wish you had them. Sure, mongo has a bullshit transaction feature, but it's scoped to one document and you need replica sets, and all this other shit to make it work right.
>"schema-less" or "unstructured" - Just because you want to store data with nested arrays/objects does not mean it cant be properly modeled in a classic rdms. anything you can store in mongo you can store in a schema (even without use of json, json types are also an option though). Every production mongo implementation Ive seen ends up doing schema verification after-the-fact, which negates the said benefits. why would you want something schema-less if you need to know the schema to actually use the data.. And if its a blob, well every one support them.
>Application and business data is almost always relational - yes there are exceptions, but most likely you will want to normalize you data at some point. Maybe not for your small app, but you will as things grow. And remember, if you just want a key-value store, you can put it in your rdms (or redis!).


>no its not.
>Mongo is fine as a secondary data store or a prototype but SQL + Redis is still the best.
>Edge databases look to be the next best thing


>It's not nearly as common in production as relational databases. NoSQL is very flexible (and fun) but doesn't lend itself well to robust business logic and BI since its structure is inherently fluid.
>It's a gateway drug into the world of data storage and manipulation, but for production, SQL wins hands down every time.



### [# Alternative to MongoDB?](https://www.reddit.com/r/golang/comments/unz00h/alternative_to_mongodb/)

>I always vote for PostgreSQL.
>It provides Json types that are as powerful and performant as MongoDB and adds very good relational features.
>I see a point for redis when it comes to in memory caching solutions. But I made bad experience when it came to "not loosing Data" (Edit: I meant redis here, but wrote MongoDB)
>	I agree to everything written in this answer. PostgreSQL + columns if you have a schema + JSON fields for schemaless data. It just works and it’s battle-tested.
>	I had a terrible experience with data loss in 2017 during a Saturday night and I avoid MongoDB as much as I can.


>Postgres, because it can do no-SQL too even better than MongoDB.
>	I second this - if you are used to MongoDB, Postgres will provide a new paradigm for you in the form of relational data structures, but if you want to fall back on your NoSQL knowledge, that is an option too.


>The only database that matters is Postgres


>I second SQLite for small projects




### [# How do you choose between MongoDB and PostgreSQL? When to use which?](https://www.reddit.com/r/node/comments/pgmt0e/how_do_you_choose_between_mongodb_and_postgresql/)

>If you don't know, choose SQL databases.
>	Even if you need pure json, psql can still handle it quite well.

>Postgres


### [# SQL vs noSQL?](https://www.reddit.com/r/node/comments/qo079l/sql_vs_nosql/)

>Take your time to learn SQL, it will pay off later.
>	To add to this, modeling your data in advance and being thoughtful about persistence will always make your app more maintainable and flexible. AND learning to do these things in a SQL database will make you better at using NoSQL databases IMO. Being a good relational data modeler makes picking up DynamoDB or Cassandra much easier in my opinion.
>	I've heard people say that they don't want to waste time writing DDL, they just want to get in there and start building. But this little bit of time you save up front will be completely eaten by type errors, type inconsistency, and potentially even scale issues if you do it badly enough, down the road.


>You’ll have much more power as a developer If you know SQL.


> Hey, so i'm still kinda noob, but my take on that is that noSQL db like mongo or firebase are a favorite of bootcamps and tutorials because they pretty much use JS objects and don't require to learn SQL on top of everything else. They also don't require to think about relations , foreign keys etc.  
> But, whenever your data will be relational, a SQL db is always better. And it looks like your data will be relational so I would probably go SQL.  
> Of course mongoDB would work , but if it became big with a lot of users you would be better off with a relational DB.  
> 	I work with NoSQL (DynamoDB) quite a bit and find that it handles relations quite well, as long as you design the schema for them. It's very good at specific queries, and very bad at general queries.  
> 	For example, a recipe website where users create and share recipes, with favorites, comments, etc, that would all be very easy in NoSQL, or SQL. Either choice would be fine.  
> 	NoSQL can be an excellent choice for things with specific access patterns. "get all instructions, ingredients, comments, and likes for this recipe" would be fine. "get all recipes for this user", no problem. "get all recipes that use velveeta", I'm gonna need to judge you for this one, and it's probably not a good idea, but we can do that.  
> 	But if you want something like.. usage analytics, NoSQL can become very complicated, very quickly. A report like "Which users liked this specific recipe last Tuesday, and what else did they like that day?" is something of a worst-case scenario for most NoSQL schemas. It's far too broad.
> 	As you said, bootcamps and tutorials like NoSQL because it's easy. That's not a bad thing. It only becomes a bad thing when you try to make it do things that it's not good at. NoSQL is a tool like any other, and is good at specific use cases. SQL is the same way, but has a different set of things that it's good at.  
> 	TLDR: Use the right tool for the job. NoSQL is fine for many jobs.  
> 	
> 	For a "still kinda noob" this is really excellent, appropriately nuanced take. You're exactly right in every respect.  
> 	Source: Developing full stack applications for 20+ years.  
> 	 
> 	Former bootcamp instructor here. I can’t speak for every bootcamp, but we preferred SQL, specifically Postgres. A graduate who knows CRUD operations in Postgres can build apps around it, and can pick up MySQL or SQL Server or whatever else their first job requires.  
> 	At bootcamps we take shortcuts towards employability. Building with NoSQL might help you build a project quicker, but you haven’t learned anything useful in the process. Postgres is both the employable skill and the shortcut.  
> 	MongoDB does have its uses, and sometimes a full relational model isn’t practical. But honestly, the best thing MongoDB has going for it is a great marketing team.  


> It comes down to the question, do you know all your data access patterns or will you need to run unknown ad-hoc style queries on the database? If all the access patterns are well defined and not subject to change over time NoSQL is generally a clear winner, and if you build your table schema and indexes correctly NoSQL will generally scale much better without impacting performance or massively increasing compute costs  


> Mongo is a special use case database. In reality most problems will fit better in a relational database. Mongo is helpful for prototyping because you don't need to spend much time setting up the database.  
> So, for prototyping, mongo is fine. For actual production your data model will probably be better suited to a relational database. Postgres has json data types, so you can place non relational data in it if needed.  
> Your case is better for relational. The favorites list is the crux: that's definitely relational, a UserFavorites table.  
  

> I've worked in a large company that is stuck to using MongoDB as their store. It's a fucking nightmare inducing shit show in that DB.  
 - Any idiot can stick anything they want wherever they want.
>- Redundant data everywhere that has fallen out of sync.
 - try/catch littered throughout the code base to account for inconsistant data  
> Yes you can mitigate these things by being stringent and protective, but lets be real... things always slip as times goes on, especially when you have a large team and years of tech-debt.  
> NoSQL (lets call them schema-less) are good for data with a huge number of attributes and where it doesn't serve to normalise that data (split it up to for better organisation and to reduce redundancy)  
> I have used SQL + NoSQL hand in hand to great effect and would continue to do so... for example:  
> A user has contact details and a password; all good for SQL, we're talking 10 columns max of well-understood typed data.  
> With that user we have a user profile which they have compiled themselves consisting hobbies, books they have read, holidays they have been on etc etc etc. This is irregular free-text data with a large amount of text content and nesting that serves no purpose for us to bother with pre-defined fields or relationships. The amount of time we would spend catering for the possible values therein would just make our SQL DB a living hell.  
> Solution: Store the user profile in NoSQL as an object, keyed by the SQL user's ID.  
> ALL THAT BEING SAID!!!!  
> If this is a small project which has throw away data, throw it in whatever DB you feel most comfortable with. But, defo learn about them both (and all the other ones if you can be bothered)



> TLDR: both would work for your use case but to be a better developer you should look at data types and how the data is search/used. Then decide on data storage that meets these needs.  
> Sorry this won't answer your question but all the comments I have read have become a debate about is relational or non-relational but it never that simple.  
> To start with noSQL can standard for 'not only SQL' or No SQL depending on who you talk to. So a MYSQL or Postgrsql is noSQL but they could also not be. However it never breaks down so cleanly.  
> There are many types of databases:    
> Document like mongoDB: they use a key (guid or number usually) and a blob of JSON these are good for storing objects with minimal relationships they generally don't do forign keys but can do compound keys and indexes to speed up searches.
> Key Value like Redis: they also use a key but have even fewer options to index and search on and are good for caching frequently used queries or data that has a short useful life time (look at Redis TTL of records)  
> Bigtable like Cassandra: these usually have a SQL like language (CQL for Cassandra) but segment/shard the table data across many nodes/servers this means big data sets can be queried faster while scaling like other non-relational DB  
> Relational (better known as SQL) like MySQL, Postgrsql or many others: these have connections know as relationship s between records and tables making connecting and querying data easier. There is a topic called normalisation that helps set out data in tables and how to do relationship like one to many and many to many to help you structure data better. These have been the main type of database used in business since the 70s or 80s and got a bad reputation in the early 2000s as they where centralised, didn't scale as easily as the other options on this list a(they scaled up and not out so you are limited with the size of hardware you could buy), where usually stuffed with stored procedures and business logic making them bloated. However that has changed and you can now do distributed ACID compliant relational databases with cocroachDB or GCP spanner now known as NewSQL.  
> Graph like Neo4j: create lots of relationship between records know as nodes that can be followed to search or listed to show all nodes that for example liked a tweet or are friends on Facebook. They have been used in social media and forensic investigations.  
> You can look at this for a full list: https://dbdb.io/browse  
> Before someone down votes this. all of the above examples can be used in most of the same ways (redis has a document DB type of database and Postgrsql has JSON blobs that can be documents for example) these are examples of there original DB type and there original use case. It is also very simplified or this would have been a hole book. There are many books on this topic and more generally on data storage that if you are really interested you should look at.  
> You should play with all of them learn normalisation and data structures. Then you can choose. Many systems I had designed and built don't just use one type. They will use MySQL for core data and redis for caching or saving forums that users drop out of half way through. Then Kafka and Hbase or a data warehouse for big queries and reporting.



>I've worked with SQL Server, Postgres, and Oracle *shudder* in the past.MongoDB blows them all out of the water.
>That said, there's a steep learning curve to using it properly.Traditional relational databases have transactions baked in.This is very convenient, and for simple applications, sufficient enough.  
>For enterprise applications, this often becomes a crutch and gives engineers a false sense of security. As soon as you add micro services and integrations to the mix, a traditional database approach leads to inconsistency.  
>** WHERE IS YOUR TRANSACTIONAL DATABASE NOW!!! BWAHHHHAHAHA!! ***  
>But seriously though, whenever data can originate from multiple source, you need to learn how to roll your own transactions anyway. Document database engineers have an advantage here as they've had to do that sort of thing from the get go.  
>(Note that MongoDB >= 4.0 has some level of transactionality, but this kind of defeats the purpose.)