#### WHY MOST PEOPLE FAIL TO LEARN PROGRAMMING

##### Distraction of social media:
- We procrastinate by watching videos on social media instead of actually doing something.
- Watching self-improvement content is only as productive as you implement them in your real-life.

##### Getting lost
- Not knowing what programming is
- Tutorial hell. One does not simply learn programming by watching programming tutorials or copy-pasting code.

##### Not picking a niche
- Focus on one domain, one technology. Knowing a little of everything is same as knowing nothing.
- Become expert in one specific technology/framework.

People you meet in colleges is more valuable than whatever you learn there.



#### DOES YOUR EDITOR MATTER?

The specific editor you use does not matter.

- Master the editor and tools you use. Tools are your force multipliers. Mastering them can enable you to do a lot more with less time.

- Attitude of mastering develops passion and an attitude of exploring.


#### HELIX THE RUST POWERED EDITOR//CODE TO THE MOON

##### Modes
1. Normal
2. Insert
3. Visual
4. Space
5. Goto
6. Match

##### Space
Brings up main menu.

Can do ::
- `f`: Open file from `pwd`, `Ctrl V` opens highlighted file in file picker in vsplit,
- `s`: Jump to identifier in file,
- `r` renames symbols,


##### Goto mode
Jumps.

Can do ::
- `h` line start,
- `l` line end,
- `d` definition,
- `r` find usages of identifier,

Jumps create jump points. `Ctrl o` goes to previous jump point; `Ctrl i` goes to next jump point.


##### Visual, Normal, Insert
Same as Vim.

`w`/`W` in normal mode selects current word; `w`/`W` in visual mode selects entire selection; `x` highlights entire line, subsequent `x`s highlight next lines;

`]f` jumps to and selects the next function in file; `[f` does same for previous function; `]a` cycles through function parameters;

`y` copies; `p` pastes;


`s <to replace> Enter c` after selection does find-replace with multiple cursors, `,` kills multiple cursors

`j` (down), `k` (up), `h` (left), `l` (right), `w` (right word), `b` (left word) work exactly like in Vim.

`tc` jumps to before next occurrence of character `c`; `fc` jumps to and includes next occurrence of character `c`;

`Alt .` redoes previous command;

In Helix, action happens after selection. In Vim, both happen simultaneously.



##### Registers
Register is where yanks to. Copies can be done to any register.

`"` specifies the register to yank to. `" <registername> y/p` yanks/pastes from register `registername`.